NULL, FIN and Xmas TCP port scans are less commonly used than any of the others we've covered already, so we will not go into a huge amount of depth here. All three are interlinked and are used primarily as they tend to be even stealthier, relatively speaking, than a SYN "stealth" scan. 
			
				NULL SCANS
As the name suggests, NULL scans (-sN) are when the TCP request is sent with no flags set at all. As per the RFC, the target host should respond with a RST if the port is closed.

				FIN SCANS
FIN scans (-sF) work in an almost identical fashion; however, instead of sending a completely empty packet, a request is sent with the FIN flag (usually used to gracefully close an active connection). Once again, Nmap expects a RST if the port is closed.

				XMAS SCANS
As with the other two scans in this class, Xmas scans (-sX) send a malformed TCP packet and expects a RST response for closed ports. It's referred to as an xmas scan as the flags that it sets (PSH, URG and FIN) give it the appearance of a blinking christmas tree when viewed as a packet capture in Wireshark.

It's also worth noting that while RFC 793 mandates that network hosts respond to malformed packets with a RST TCP packet for closed ports, and don't respond at all for open ports; this is not always the case in practice. In particular Microsoft Windows (and a lot of Cisco network devices) are known to respond with a RST to any malformed TCP packet -- regardless of whether the port is actually open or not. This results in all ports showing up as being closed.

That said, the goal here is, of course, FIREWALL EVASION. Many firewalls are configured to drop incoming TCP packets to blocked ports which have the SYN flag set (thus blocking new connection initiation requests). By sending requests which do not contain the SYN flag, we effectively bypass this kind of firewall. Whilst this is good in theory, most modern IDS solutions are savvy to these scan types, so don't rely on them to be 100% effective when dealing with modern systems.

				QUESTIONS.
1) Which of the three shown scan types uses the URG flag? xmas. (10 line 2)

2) Why are NULL, FIN and Xmas scans generally used? they are used for firewall invassion. (14 line 1)

3) Which common OS may respond to a NULL, FIN or Xmas scan with a RST for every port? microsoft windows.(12 line 3)